<p>Dynamic Game based Security framework in SDN-enabled
Cloud Networking Environments
Ankur Chowdhary Sandeep Pisharody
Adel Alshamrani Dijiang Huang
School of Computing, Informatics and Decision Systems Engineering
Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ
<achaud16, spishar1, aalsham4, dhuang8>@asu.edu
ABSTRACT
SDN provides a way to manage complex networks by in-
troducing programmability and abstraction of the control
plane. All networks suﬀer from attacks to critical infrastruc-
ture and services such as DDoS attacks. We make use of the
programmability provided by the SDN environment to pro-
vide a game theoretic attack analysis and countermeasure
selection model in this research work. The model is based
on reward and punishment in a dynamic game with multiple
players. The network bandwidth of attackers is downgraded
for a certain period of time, and restored to normal when
the player resumes cooperation. The presented solution is
based on Nash Folk Theorem, which is used to implement a
punishment mechanism for attackers who are part of DDoS
traﬃc, and reward for players who cooperate, in eﬀect en-
forcing desired outcome for the network administrator.
Keywords
Software Deﬁned Networking (SDN), Game Theory, Dis-
tributed Denial of Service (DDoS), Moving Target Defense
(MTD), Cloud Systems
1. INTRODUCTION
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) is a major security
problem aﬀecting networks. Some recent cases include a
massive DDoS attack on DNS provider Dyn in October 2016,
and an attack on the website krebsonsecurity.com which was
of magnitude 650 Gbps. The attackers leverage sophisti-
cated botnets such as Leet to send massive traﬃc to the
victim, thus overwhelming the limited capacity of the vic-
tim. Traditional networks usually incorporate mechanisms
such as ﬁrewall, Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and In-
trusion Prevention System (IPS) to detect and counter such
attacks. Since there are multiple entities (such as routers,
ﬁrewall, switches etc.) involved in enforcing the security
mechanism, and cooperative sharing of attack information
between devices that have data and control plane embedded
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full cita-
tion on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or re-
publish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
SDN-NFV Sec’17, March 22-24, 2017, Scottsdale, AZ, USA
c⃝2017 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-4908-6/17/03. . . $15.00
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3040992.3040998in a single device is hard; it becomes very diﬃcult to detect
and counter such attacks. In addition, each diﬀerent device
may have vendor speciﬁc command and control mechanism.
Software Deﬁned Network (SDN) provides separation be-
tween data and control plane [13]. A logically centralized
controller such as OpenDaylight (ODL) is used for taking
control decisions such as routing, load balancing, ﬁrewall
policies, IDS and Service Level Agreement (SLA) [14]. The
data-plane, which is involved with traﬃc forwarding remains
a part of devices such as switches and routers. The control
decisions taken by control plane are enforced by devices.
In this work we model the DDoS attack as a dynamic
game between the attacker and administrator. The attacker
has a goal of targeting critical infrastructure by sending a
huge volume of traﬃc through bots distributed inside or out-
side the target environment. While we can assume some of
the bots are detected by the IDS based on signature match,
modern DDoS botnets are very stealthy in nature. To this
end, we introduce a game theoretic model which will help
uncover entire botnet, and rate limit traﬃc from these ma-
licious users/bots. The concept of reward and punishment
which is used in game theoretic models to enforce coopera-
tion between ﬁrms has been employed in this research work.
To sustain mutually desirable outcomes, the agents/users
with undesired behavior are punished. Various game theo-
retic approaches that can be used to model the system have
been shown in the ﬁgure below.
Game Theory
Competitive
Dynamic St
aticCoo
perative
Dynamic St
atic
Figure 1: Game theory classiﬁcation.
We consider our system to be a dynamic multi-player
game. A single network administrator (SDN Controller in
our case) is playing against multiple players, some of which
are attackers. We deploy administrator’s strategy in form of
Openﬂow rules. Since some of the countermeasures deployed
as part of defense strategy can conﬂict with some existing
rules, in our previous work [15] we use a ﬂow rule conﬂict
detection and resolution algorithm to ﬁrst detect and then
53
eliminate ﬂow rule conﬂicts. The attackers have some in-
centive of deviating from normal behavior at a particular
instant but admin has control over network resource opti-
mization, and he can counter attacker’s move by limiting
his available bandwidth in next time instance of play.
In Section 2, we discuss a motivating example and some
key terminology. Section 3 introduces a reward-punishment
model based on Nash Folk theorem. Section 4 consists of
implementation and Section 5 discusses the evaluation of a
game theoretic model on a small test environment. We dis-
cuss some related work in dealing with DDoS attacks in SDN
and compare our model to them in Section 6. Finally, con-
clusion of this work and direction for the future are discussed
in Section 7.
2. BACKGROUND
In this Section, we introduce some background concepts
used in this research work.
Deﬁnition 1. We deﬁne a N player extensive form repeated
game G with perfect information between multiple players
asG={N,A i,ui}whereN={1,2,...n}denotes number
of players, ai∈Aiis the action set available to player i.
ui:ai↦→Riis the payoﬀ function that maps actions to
reward value R.
Deﬁnition 2. We consider that the game has been played
totperiods of time, and deﬁne game history in an instance t
asht={a1,a2,..,a t−1}=At−1. This denotes actions taken
by a player until now. H1={∅}, andH=∞∑
t=1Ht.
A playeriprefers an action atoverbtifui(at)≥∗
iui(bt).
The payoﬀ proﬁle for a player is considered feasible in this
game, i.e. convex combination of payoﬀ proﬁles of outcome
ofA,s=∑
a∈Aαau(a) such that∑
a∈Aαa= 1. Here s
represents the strategy vector for a player.
We illustrate the game used in this work with an example
of two players, who take turns to decide on an action. As-
sume the players P1andP2correspond to an attacker and
administrator.
Deﬁnition 3. The strategy vector of a player i,s∗
iis
best response to strategy vector of all other players s∗
−iif
ui(s∗
i,s∗
−i)≥ui(si,s∗
−i)for allsi. This vector is a Nash
Equilibrium if the relation holds for all siand alli.
For the two player example, we consider both players
would try to play Nash Equilibrium value against each other.
Let us consider utility in terms of network bandwidth for
this game. P1has actions a1={Cooperate, Defect }andP2
has action set a2={Cooperate, Defect }. As long as any
player behaves in a benign manner, the administrator will
allow normal bandwidth to the player. If attack from some
malicious node in a network is detected by administrator,
he/she will play a strategy of Rate-Limiting the attacker’s
bandwidth available. Sample payoﬀ matrix in normal form
has been shown in the Figure 1, where Bdenotes the total
network bandwidth.
Since we consider a dynamic game with perfect informa-
tion, we need to consider an extensive form of the game.
For this particular example, consider that the attacker
chooses action a1
2, that is defect againstP2who assumes
all users for network behave in a benign way and choosesPlayer 2
a1
2a2
2
Player 1a1
1(B
2,B
2)(3B
4,B
4)
a2
1(B
4,3B
4)(B
5,4B
5)
Table 1: Normal form representation of Attacker
and administrator Payoﬀ’s
a1
2, i.e. cooperate . However, in second period t= 2 he/she
checks the history HofP1deﬁned above, observes the
earlier defect action, and selects a2
2irrespective of action
chosen byP1. To punish the P1further, he chooses same
action ast= 2 in period t= 3. The deviation from normal
behavior is considered a trigger strategy .
We deﬁne the minmax payoﬀ in a Game before introduc-
ing deﬁnition of Nash Folk theorem which we use as the basis
for our deterrence algorithm for malicious users.
Deﬁnition 4. The minmax payoﬀ value of a player is
the lowest payoﬀ value that can be forced upon a given
player by all other players. This is denoted by value vi=
mina−i∈A−imax ai∈A iui(a−i,ai).
Since the future payoﬀ is less desirable compared to the
current payoﬀ value, we use discount factor δ∈(0,1]. We
use this variable to motivate the deﬁnition of the Nash Folk
theorem.
Deﬁnition 5. The Nash Folk Theorem for a an extensive
form game states that payoﬀ proﬁle which was present for
Nash Equilibrium denoted by wican be enforced upon a given
player in the long term by punishing him for a given pe-
riod of time. If the player P1deviates from good behavior,
his opponents will use minmax strategy against him/her till
the continuous reward value is no better than in the case
where he never shows malicious behavior. wi≥vi+T∑
t=1δt×
mina−i∈A−imax ai∈A iui(at
−i,at
i). Herevidenotes defection
payoﬀ for attacker at t= 0. The second equation on right
hand side i.e. mina−i∈A−imax ai∈A iui(at
−i,at
i)shows that
P1has been min-maxed by other players from t={1,T}if
he defect at t= 0. The value for T, i.e. time periods for
which punishment should be carried out can be derived by
solving this linear inequality.
Extensive form game tree for such a game is depicted in
Figure 2 below. The P1represents the attacker and P2rep-
resent the network admin in this ﬁgure.
The path in green indicates the administrator’s choice of
action when the user behaves normally. We can see the pay-
oﬀ matrix from Table 1 and check average bandwidth at end
of periodt= 2, which will beB
2since the user is cooper-
ating att={0,1}. In case user P1defects (behaves as an
attacker), he/she will gain bandwidth3B
4att= 1, but the
administrator P2will punish user at t= 1, resulting in a
bandwidth BW =B
5during the next time period. The re-
sulting average BW will be1
2×{3B
4+B
5}= 0.475B , which
is lower than 0.75B , the bandwidth had P1behaved in a
cooperative fashion. The path in red shows attack coun-
termeasure procedure followed by P2. In the long term the
attacker will be better oﬀ by behaving normally (sending no
malicious traﬃc) if we deploy rate limiting mechanism using
this scheme.
54P1 
P1 
P2 
P2 
P1 t=0 
P1 
 P1 t=2 t=2 t=1 
 Avg  BW =  ½ ∗ (3𝐵
4+𝐵
5)   Avg  BW =  ½ ∗ (𝐵
2+𝐵
2)  Figure 2: Extensive form of Dynamic Game
3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE &amp; MODEL
The system architecture as shown in Figure 3 consists of
ODL [9] based SDN platform. The southbound APIs are
used for interacting with data-plane elements. We assume
that the switches for our architecture are Openﬂow enabled.
These switches interact with the hosts inside or outside the
network. As can be seen, some hosts send normal traﬃc
to switch while others act as part of a DDoS botnet. The
SDN controller platform consists of several elements such as
topology manager to perform any network topology recon-
ﬁguration, network conﬁg element to ensure persistence of
the current network conﬁguration.
Southbound REST API 
Northbound REST API 
Openflow Enabled<br />
Device 
Open vSwitch 
DDoS 
Prevention<br />
Attack Graph 
Generator<br />
Attack 
Countermeasure 
Evaluator 
Snort 
IDS 
Topology 
Manager 
Network 
Config 
SDN Controller Platform 
Dataplane Elements 
Network Services and 
Orchestration 
Figure 3: System Architecture
The main element from this layer used by us is Snort
IDS [3]. We consider a signature based detection mechanism
to collect and categorize network traﬃc as malicious or be-
nign. This information is passed on to a network service and
orchestration layers through northbound REST APIs. We
consider three types of DDoS attacks in this work namely,
SYN-Flood Attack, UDP Flood Attack, ICMP Flood At-tack. The example below shows Snort signature used as a
trigger for DDoS prevention mechanism based on the game
theoretic approach.
alert tcp $HOME_NET any -&gt; $HOME_NET 80
(flags: S; msg:"Possible TCP DoS";
flow: stateless; threshold: type both,
track by_src, count 70, seconds 10;
sid:10001;rev:1;)
Once Snort triggers the DDoS defense mechanism, the
SDN ﬂow table will be updated to rate limit the traﬃc from
a particular source to destination in the home network.
Figure 4: Traﬃc Rate Limiting in SDN
Figure 4 shows various entries for a given SDN ﬂow table
[1]. The match ﬁeld is used for matching ingress port and
packet headers. In this example, we have snort alert for IP
Address 192.168.2.1 , which has been classiﬁed as attacker’s
IP. The Instruction ﬁeld of ﬂow table is added. The rate
limit decided by the algorithm is set in Rate sub-ﬁeld of
Band Field in Meter Table . In the Figure 4 Once the period
of punishment decided by the administrator is over for this
particular IP address, the Rate sub-ﬁeld will be updated to
default traﬃc burst rate. We use the REST API to push
these values continuously to ODL controller.
4. IMPLEMENTATION
System setup used and algorithmic details for Nash Folk
theorem based DDoS Prevention are discussed in this sec-
tion.
4.1 Openﬂow Rate Limiting Algorithm
The Openﬂow based rate limiting algorithm described
in this section consists of two procedures. One procedure
SET-RATE-LIMIT-METER is used for invoking meter with
speciﬁed meterID in the corresponding ﬂow table. By de-
fault the meter table is optional for a Flow Table. The
host behaving normally will not face any decreased band-
width. However, if the host is behaving maliciously and
a trigger event based on Snort IDS alert is used to invoke
meter with ID 1, the Bandwidth would be set to a value de-
cided by the rate limit policy, depending upon cooperation
or defection of malicious host in the current and subsequent
periods. Lines 7-10 depict the preset values of bandwidth
for hosti Pi. The procedure NASH-FOLK-RATE-LIMIT
based on the greedy approach loops through all ﬂow tables
in invoking meter with rate limiting threshold if matching
source host is found in the list of malicious hosts from a
Snort IDS (lines 11-17). The procedure of punishment is
55Algorithm 1 SDN-DDoS-Rate-Limit-Algo
1:procedure Set-Rate-Limit-Meter(meterName, ban-
dID, bandRate)
2:MeterName←this.meterName
3:mbh←MeterBuilder.meterBandHeader ()
4:mbh.setBandID (this.bandID )
5:mbh.setBandRate(this.bandRate )
6:procedure Nash-Folk-Rate-Limit (
)
7:ui(coop,coop)←Bc{HostPicooperates}
8:ui(coop,def )←{B cd&gt;Bc}{HostPidefects}
9:ui(def,coop)]← {Bdc&lt; B}{HostPidefected at
tk−1}
10:ui(def,def )←{B dd&lt; B dc}{HostPidefected at
tk−1andtk}
11: fori∈[0,n-1] do
12:ft←FlowTable i
13: if ft.match.src ip∈ DDoSTrigger(src ip)
andk∑
t=0δtui(coop,coop) ≤ui(coop,def ) +
k∑
t=1δtui(def,{coop,def})then
14: x←ft.Instruction()
15: x.SET-RATE-LIMIT-METER(”RLMeter”, 1,
ui(det,coop))
16: else
17: x.SET-RATE-LIMIT-METER(”RLMeter”, 1,
ui(det,det ))
carried out for kinstances of time where value of kis de-
termined by equationk∑
t=0δtui(coop,coop )≤ui(coop,def ) +
k∑
t=1δtui(def,{coop,def}) in line 13. This linear equation en-
sures that defecting host is no better than for case of normal
behavior at end of kperiods of punishment.
5. EV ALUATION
We used network simulator [2] and ODL controller on
Ubuntu 16.04 OS. We conducted two experiments in our
evaluation. The ﬁrst experiment uses the algorithm pro-
posed in Section 4 to deal with ICMP ﬂood attacks. The
second experiment uses the same algorithm for TCP SYN
ﬂood and UDP ﬂood based attacks on a fat tree topology.
The variation in topologies for both experiments is used to
check the generality of our solution.
5.1 Experiment 1: ICMP Flood DDoS Attack
on Linear Topology
In our ﬁrst experiment we created a linear topology in
mininet environment with the number of hosts varying from
50 to 500. The topology had a single layer of hosts, all
connected to one switch. An example of linear topology can
be seen in Figure 5.
We created an attack script in python, which uses mul-
tiprocessing to spawn shell for each host and send ICMP
traﬃc of large packet sizes to a single host in the network.
The traﬃc is port mirrored to a dummy port. The IDS in-
tercepts the attack signature for ICMP ﬂood DDoS attack
and passes information to ODL controller. ODL application
Figure 5: Linear Topology in SDN
for DDoS mitigation decreases the traﬃc rate by a factor δ
consecutively until the long term average for traﬃc is within
normal traﬃc burst from a provided host. In this particular
experiment we used the value of damping factor δ= 0.8.
This scheme punishes all the attacking hosts by degrading
traﬃc throughput gracefully, instead of blocking the traﬃc
entirely or rate limiting to a ﬁxed value, which can aﬀect
the traﬃc from legitimate users.
Number
of At-
tacking
HostsICMP Flood
Traﬃc (Mb/s)ICMP Traﬃc
post Rate
Limit(Mb/s)
50 39.49 1.33
100 79.85 2.70
200 163.69 5.54
300 241.17 8.122
400 321.96 10.83
500 467.16 15.69
Table 2: Number of Hosts vs ICMP Traﬃc at T=30s
post attack.
The table shows that traﬃc burst at target for 100
hosts is 79.85 Mbps when there is no attack prevention
mechanism to deal with DDoS attack. However, once the
trigger for Rate Limit is set by IDS, the traﬃc decreases
to 2.70 Mbps, a decrease of factor 30. Similarly, as the
number of attacking hosts increase from 100 to 500, the
throughput of DDoS attack increases from 79.58 Mbps to
467.16 Mbps, which shows a linear scaling in attack traﬃc.
The Rate Limit (RL) algorithm quickly adapts to increased
traﬃc and decreased corresponding traﬃc limit for 500
hosts to a value 15.69 Mbps. On comparing attack traﬃc
and corresponding rate limited traﬃc for 500 hosts, we
can observe a decrease by a factor of 29. The experiment
shows a successful countermeasure using a game theoretic
approach of punishing the attacker on a suﬃciently large
network.
5.2 Experiment 2: TCP/UDP Flood DDoS At-
tack on Fat Tree Topology
Most of the attacks faced by organizations target some
DNS server to send large burst of TCP or UDP packets to
target host. Also, since data centers follow fat tree topol-
ogy architecture, we conducted experiment to test our algo-
56rithm on a fat tree topology using mininet, with depth=3,
and fanout=3. We used a damping factor δ= 0.9 for this
experiment.
Figure 6: Fat Tree topology in SDN
In this experiment the normal allowed limit for TCP and
UDP traﬃc set by SDN controller was 3.0 Mbps. We ran
TCP SYN Flood DDoS attack on a topology of 64 hosts.
The traﬃc decay once the rate limiting algorithm based at-
tack countermeasure mechanism is triggered based on IDS
alerts is plotted in red in Figure 7. Initially DDoS traﬃc
is 157.03 Mbps, which clearly violates the permissible limit.
The SDN controller pushes the ﬂow to deal with this attack,
and the traﬃc is reduced to 18.11 Mbps at t=10s. The traf-
ﬁc burst reaches a value 3.02 Mbps at t=50s, which is nearly
equal to normal traﬃc rate allowed on this network.
10 20 30 40 50 6001020304050100140160
TimeAtt
acker’s Bandwidth(Mb/s)SYN Flood Traﬃc(Mb/s)
UDP Flood Traﬃc(Mb/s)
Figure 7: TCP and UDP Flood Attack Mitigation
on fat tree topology
Similarly, the traﬃc pattern for a UDP ﬂood attack starts
oﬀ around 127.38 Mbps. The rate limit algorithm decreases
this value to 15.12 Mbps at t=10s. Traﬃc rate is further
reduced to 4.52 Mbps at t=40s. Finally traﬃc burst reaches
a value 3.01Mbps at t=60s, and algorithm stops further
enforcement of rate limit after t=60s. The IDS waits for
further intrusion alerts at this point to notify the controller
in case, malicious traﬃc is still sent by attacking hosts. Thus
we can see from this experiment that the algorithm will take
less than one minute to mitigate TCP and UDP based DDoS
attacks on a suﬃciently large network.5.3 Complexity Analysis
The algorithmic complexity will depend upon the number
of users in the system. In the worst case, all (N number of
users) will behave maliciously. We consider nto be number
of ﬂow tables, and kto be upper bound on time for punish-
ing a particular host. The complexity will be O(N×n×k).
The values nandkwill be constant, so we get c=n×k. The
complexity will eﬀectively be O(N×c)∼O(N). Thus Open-
ﬂow Rate Limiting Algorithm will have linear time complex-
ity. The algorithm will be very fast with guaranteed termi-
nation.
6. RELATED WORK
We analysed several works that either use some intelli-
gent framework to deal with active attacks in SDN or use
some game theoretic model in network security. In [16], au-
thors combine game theory and Machine Learning (ML) to
model attacker’s behavior in ML feature space. This work
uses spam ﬁltering as a target application to provide defense
against current and future attacks. Random host mutation
based on SDN platform has been used by Jafarian et al. [10]
to map real and virtual IP addresses, and make reconnais-
sance hard for malicious hosts. Chung et al. [8] [7] have
used proactive defense and countermeasure analysis frame-
work in cloud network. The authors have used z Bayesian
framework for attack analysis. Our work is based on Nash
Equilibrium based attack model in dynamic games.
Braga et al. [5] have used pattern recognition based on Self
Organizing Maps (SOM) to ﬁlter DoS attack traﬃc in NOX
based Openﬂow network. The solution is lightweight com-
pared to earlier works on the DoS attack detection based on
KDD dataset. We have some concerns about the accuracy of
pattern recognition in DDoS attack detection hence we have
relied on signature based detection mechanism. FRESCO
[17] which has been developed on top of NOX based SDN
framework provides modular security to defend against net-
work attacks. Bot Miner service module in FRESCO uses
clustering mechanism to detect bots through network level
ﬂow analysis. Markov game based framework for two player
zero sum game has been discussed by Alpcan et al. [4]. Their
framework used Markov Chain based attack modeling to
send information to IDS, so that the administrator can deal
with active attacks.
Kampanakis et al. [12] have discussed obfuscation as a
possible Moving Target Defense (MTD) strategy to deal
with attacks in SDN environment. Authors have discussed
OS ﬁngerprinting and network reconnaissance as speciﬁc
types of attacks in SDN. Random mutations of this nature
may, however disrupt any active services and some cost-
beneﬁt analysis of MTD strategy is necessary. Another ap-
proach based on MTD solution for prevention of DoS at-
tacks on SDN networks has been discussed by [11]. The
authors propose the idea of moving secret proxies to new
network locations using a greedy algorithm. This solution
however is limited to malicious insiders in a network. A scal-
able attack graph approach to deal with system vulnerability
based multi-hop attack has been discussed by Chowdhary et
al.[6]. The authors use distributed hypergraph partitioning
approach to construct an attack graph for a large system,
however don’t discuss the possible countermeasures to deal
with active attacks such as DDoS, NTP ampliﬁcation, etc.,
which we discuss as part of this work. In [18] authors use a
57game theoretic framework to deal with attacks against web
applications. This work uses Stackelberg game to model
attack and defense.
7. CONCLUSIONS
We analyzed a game theoretic framework based on re-
ward and punishment mechanism which is used successfully
in game theoretic modeling. Using a greedy algorithm we
solved an optimization problem for rate limiting network
bandwidth as a punitive mechanism for misbehaving play-
ers in a dynamic network game. The optimization algorithm
used in this work, based on Nash Folk theorem, allowed us
to degrade network bandwidth gracefully, without apply-
ing a static hard limit on network traﬃc. Our experimen-
tal work targeted DDoS attacks, speciﬁcally ICMP Flood,
TCP SYN Flood, UDP Flood. The algorithm is able to
deal with all these attacks based on alerts received from
SDN controller. The framework proposed leveraged bene-
ﬁt of network optimization and programmability oﬀered by
SDN quite well, and the proposed algorithm can adapt well
on varying topologies as demonstrated by Experiments 1
and 2 in Section 5.
We used the damping factor δto be on higher side
{0.8,0.9}in this experimental work to put more weight on
future punishment based payoﬀ to the attacker. The normal
bandwidth which we used as a baseline for threshold band-
width was selected by observing normal TCP, UDP traﬃc in
a medium sized network for a time duration of about 10-15
minutes. Both these parameters can have an impact on ﬁnal
results and convergence time of the algorithm. We plan to
study the impact of variation in these two parameters in the
OpenStack based cloud as an extension of this work.
Our motivation in use of a signature based IDS was to deal
with DDoS attacks whose signature can be easily identiﬁed.
Most of anomaly detection methods we studied prior to the
experimental setup of this work suﬀered from the issue false
alarms. We plan to use Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) based
algorithms to train our system for identiﬁed attacks and
use anomaly detection along with signature based detection
mechanism to construct a comprehensive attack mitigation
solution as part of future work.
A limitation of our experimental work is the number of
host subprocess we can spawn using the multiprocessing
thread, which is currently limited to around 500. We plan to
leverage a cloud framework based on OpenStack to deal with
this scalability concern and analyze the impact of algorithm
on dynamic attacks in a real cloud environment.
Acknowledgments
This research is supported by NSF Secure and Resilient Net-
working (SRN) Project (1528099) and NATO Science for
Peace &amp; Security Multi-Year Project (MD.SFPP 984425).
S. Pisharody is supported by a scholarship from the NSF Cy-
berCorps program (NSF-SFS-1129561). Adel Alshamrani is
supported by King Abdul Aziz University, Jeddah, Saudi
Arabia.
8. REFERENCES
[1] Openﬂow switch speciﬁcation v 1.3.1.
https://www.opennetworking.org/.
[2] Mininet Virtual Network https://www.mininet.org/,
2015.[3] Snort IDS, https://www.snort.org/, 2017.
[4] T. Alpcan and T. Basar. An intrusion detection game
with limited observations. In Proceedings of the 12th
Int. Symp. on Dynamic Games and Applications , 2006.
[5] R. Braga, E. Mota, and A. Passito. Lightweight DDoS
ﬂooding attack detection using NOX/OpenFlow. In
Local Computer Networks (LCN), 2010 IEEE 35th
Conference on, pages 408–415. IEEE, 2010.
[6] A. Chowdhary, S. Pisharody, and D. Huang. SDN
based scalable MTD solution in cloud network. In
Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Workshop on Moving
Target Defense, pages 27–36. ACM, 2016.
[7] C.-J. Chung. SDN-based Proactive Defense Mechanism
in a Cloud System . PhD thesis, Arizona State
University, 2015.
[8] C.-J. Chung, P. Khatkar, T. Xing, J. Lee, and
D. Huang. NICE: Network intrusion detection and
countermeasure selection in virtual network systems.
Dependable and Secure Computing, IEEE
Transactions on , 10(4):198–211, 2013.
[9] L. Foundation. Opendaylight SDN controller.
https://www.opendaylight.org/, 2017.
[10] J. H. Jafarian, E. Al-Shaer, and Q. Duan. Openﬂow
random host mutation: Transparent moving target
defense using software deﬁned networking. In
Proceedings of the ﬁrst workshop on Hot topics in
software deﬁned networks , pages 127–132. ACM, 2012.
[11] Q. Jia, K. Sun, and A. Stavrou. MOTAG: Moving
target defense against internet denial of service
attacks. In 2013 22nd International Conference on
Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN) ,
pages 1–9. IEEE, 2013.
[12] P. Kampanakis, H. Perros, and T. Beyene. SDN-based
solutions for moving target defense network
protection. In World of Wireless, Mobile and
Multimedia Networks (WoWMoM), 2014 IEEE 15th
International Symposium on a , pages 1–6. IEEE, 2014.
[13] D. Kreutz, F. M. Ramos, P. Verissimo, C. E.
Rothenberg, S. Azodolmolky, and S. Uhlig.
Software-deﬁned networking: A comprehensive survey.
proceedings of the IEEE , 103(1):14–76, 2015.
[14] E. Z. Nick Feamster, Jennifer Rexford. The road to
sdn: An intellectual history of programmable
networks. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM,
pages 87–98. ACM, 2014.
[15] S. Pisharody, A. Chowdhary, and D. Huang. Security
policy checking in distributed SDN based clouds. In
2016 IEEE Conference on Communications and
Network Security (CNS) (IEEE CNS 2016) , Oct. 2016.
[16] K. G. Richard Colbaugh. Predictability oriented
defense against adaptive adversaries. In Proceedings of
IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics (SMC) , pages 14–17. IEEE, 2012.
[17] S. Shin, P. A. Porras, V. Yegneswaran, M. W. Fong,
G. Gu, and M. Tyson. Fresco: Modular composable
security services for software-deﬁned networks. 2013.
[18] S. G. Vadlamudi, S. Sengupta, S. Kambhampati,
M. Taguinod, Z. Zhao, A. Doup´ e, and G. Ahn. Moving
target defense for web applications using bayesian
stackelberg games. CoRR , abs/1602.07024, 2016.
58</p>